---
title: 0.Scope
---

**0.The conversation between scope and engine**

    function foo(a){
        console.log(a);//2
    }
    foo(2);

*engine* : scope,I should do RHS on foo.Have u ever met it.

*scope* : I did.compiler just state it.It's a function.

*engine* : ok.execute.BTW,I should do LHS on a.Have u ever met it.

*scope* : sure.compiler declared it as the formal parameter to foo.

*engine* : fine.I will assign the value of 2 to variable a.And the console,I will do RHS reference on it.

*scope* : piece of cake. It is a built-in object.

*engine* : good.I find log() is a funtion in this object.I would like to confirm the RHS reference on a again.

*scope* : It has't chaned.Just take it.

*engine* : wonderful.I am putting the value of a which means 2 in the function log().



**1.Nested Scope**

The scope chain



**2.Exception**

In Strict mode. It is forbidden to crate global variable auto or implicit.

ReferenceError related to the scope search error.TypeError means the scope search succeed but the manipulation on the results is illeagal.



**3.Summary**

Scope is a set of rules,which allows user where and how to find the variables.If the goal of search is to do the assignment,use the LHS.Otherwise,use RHS,which means the purpose is to get the value of the variables.

The assignment operator leads to the LHS search.

The execution about finding the variables use LHS and RHS will start at current scope,If not find,LHS and RHS will search up through the scope chain until find it or stop it at the global scope(the top of the scope chain).



