---
title: 1.Lexcial Scope
---

**0.Lex-time**

    function foo(a){
        var b = a*2;
        function bar(c){
            console.log(a,b,c);
        }
        bar(b*3);
    }
    foo(2);//2,4,12
    /**
    **this technique give access to a global variable which would be inaccessible due to it     being shadowed.
    **Non-global shadowed variables cannot be accessed.
    **/
    window.a //reference a global variable as a proprtty reference of the global object

In the above snippet, the engine executes the console.log(..)statement and goes looking for the three referenced variables 'a','b','c'. It first starts with the scope of the bar(..) function.Then in order to find 'a', It goes up one level to the scope of foo(..),Find 'a' and 'b' there.Scope look-up stops once it finds the first match.

The lexical scope look-up process only applies to first-class identifiers,such as 'a','b' or the 'foo' identifier in the reference to 'foo.bar.baz'.

No matter where a function is invoked from or how it is invoked.Its lexical scope only be defined by where the function was declared.

**1.Cheating Lexical-cheating lexical scope leads to pooer performance**

    function foo0(str,a){
    eval(str);//cheat
    console.log(a,b);
    }
    var b = 2;
    foo("var b = 3;",1);//1,3
    /**
    ** eval(..) when used in a strict-mode program operates in its own lexical scope,which means
    declarations made inside of the eval() do not actually modify the enclosing scope.
    **/
    function foo1(str){
        "use strict";
        eval(str);
        console.log(a);//ReferenceError: a is not defined
    }
    foo("var a = 2;");
When the 'console.log(..)'call occers,it finds both 'a' and 'b' in the scope of foo(..),and never finds the outer 'b'.

    var var obj = {
        a:1,
        b:2,
        c:3
    };
    //repeat "obj"
    obj.a = 2;
    obj.b = 3;
    obj.c = 4;
    //use 'with'
    with(obj){
        a = 3;
        b = 4;
        c = 5;
    }

    //foo(..) function takes an object reference obj as an argument,and calls with (obj){..}     on the reference.
    function foo(obj){ 
        with(obj){
            a = 2;  //LHS reference,assign the value of 2 to variable a 
        }
    }
    var o1 = {
        a:3 //o1 has a property
    };
    var o2 = {
        b:3  //o2 has not a property
    };

    foo(o1);//invoke o1,find o1.a and assign the value of 2 to o1.a due to "a = 2"
    console.log(o1.a);//2
    foo(o2);//o2 has not the property of a and not going to creat this a property,o2.a remains undefined
    console.log(o2.a);//undefined
    console.log(a);//2--a is leak on gobal scope

while the "eval(..)" function can modify existing lexical scope if it takes a string of code with one or more declarations in it,the "with" statement actually creates a whole new lexical scope out of thin air,from thr object u pass to it.


**2.Performance**

Both "eval(..)" and "with" cheat the author-time defined lexical scope by modifying or creating new lexical scope at runtime.

If the JavaScript Engine finds an "eval(..)" or "with" in the code,it essentially has to assume that all its awareness of identifier location may be invalid,because it can not know at lexing time exactly what code u may pass to "eval(..)" to modify the lexical scope,or the contents of the object u may pass to "with" to create a new lwxical scope to be consulted.So,it simply doesn't perform the optimzations at all.

And without the optimzations,code runs slower.Don't use them.




