---
title: 5.Scope Closure
---

Closure is all around you in JavaScript,you must have to recognize and embrace it.Closures happen as a result of writing code that relies on lexical scope.U don't even really have to intentionally create closures to take advantage of them.Closures are created and used all over your code.What u are missing is the proper mental context to recognize,embrace,and leverage closures for your own will.

    function foo(){
        var a = 2;
        function bar(){
            console.log(a);//2.lexical scope look-up rules(RHS referece look-up)
        }
        bar();
    }
    foo();

    //
    function foo(){
        var a = 2;
        function bar(){
            console.log(a);
        }
        return bar;//take bar() the function itself,pass it as a value.
    }
    var baz = foo();
    baz(); //2,invoke inner function bar().bar() is executed,but outside of its declared lexical scope
    //since the function bar() is using the inner scope.foo() will not be free up by Engine as a Garbage Collector
    //bar() still has a reference to that scope,and that reference is called closure.


    //functions can be passed around as values,and indeed invoked in other locations,are all examples of closure.
    function foo(){
        var a = 2;
        function baz(){
            console.log(a);//2
        }
        bar(baz);
    }
    function bar(fn){
        fn();//closure over the inner scope of foo() is observed by accessing a.
    }

    var fn;
    function foo(){
        var a = 2;
        function baz(){
            console.log(a);
        }
        fn = baz;//assign 'baz' to global variable
    }
    function bar(){
        fn();//closure
    }
    foo();
    bar();//2
Closure is when a function is able to remember and access its lexical scope even when that function is executing outside its lexical scope.

The function is being invoked well outside of its author-time lexical scope.Closure lets the function continue to access the lexical scope it was defined in at author-time.

Whatever facility we use to transport an inner function outside of its lexical scope,it will maintain a scope reference to where it was originally declared,and wherever we execute it,that closure will be exercised.

    /**
    **the inner function named timer() is passed to setTimeout(..).timer() has a scope closure over the
    **scope of wait(..),keeping and using a reference to the variable message.
    **A thousand milliseconds after we have executed wait(..),its inner scope shouther be long gone.
    **inner function timer() still has closure over that scope.
    **/
    function wait(message){
        setTimeout(function timer(){
            console.log(message);},1000);
    }
    wait("Hello,closure!");

    function setupBot(name,selector){
        $(selector).click(function activator(){
            console.log("Activating:" + name);
        });
    }
    setupBot("Closure Bot 1","#bot_1");
    setupBot("Closure Bot 2","#bot_2");

    var a = 2;
    (function IIFE(){
        console.log(a);//a is found via normal lexical scope look-up,not really via closure.
    })();
When u treat functions(which access their own respective lexical scopes) as first-class values and pass them around,these functions are exercising closure.Such as,timers,event handlers,Ajax requests,cross-window messaging,web workers,or any of the other asynchronous(or synchronous)tasks,when u pass in a callback function,closure exercising actually.




